Hello, and welcome to
"Awakening the Dreamer,
Changing the Dream."
I'm Lynne Twist, the co-founder
of the Pachamama Alliance,
the organization responsible for
developing this unique program.
The word "pachamama"
comes from South America,
from the Quechua people of
the Amazon and the Andes,
where "pachamama"
means "Mother Earth"--
or more completely to
them, the earth, the sky,
the universe, and all time.
First, let me thank you
for being someone who cares
enough about our precious
planet and the human family
to take the time to participate
in this important program.
I guarantee that you'll
be really glad you did.
We're living in amazing times,
as you may have noticed.
So much is changing
around us all the time.
Some extraordinary
changes are for the good.
But some bring up real
fears about the future.
And so you may find yourself
worrying about the state
of the world and
questioning if there's
anything you can do about it.
This experience
you're taking part in
is about both the urgency and
the opportunity of our times.
As we will see, humanity is on
an entirely unsustainable path.
And we have a limited time
to turn things around.
But you'll also discover
something unexpected
and profoundly inspiring.
And that is that the resources
and technologies to address
this crisis already exist.
Many experts say
that what is missing
is the will to implement
the solutions--
the human commitment
to make it happen.
This experience is an
opportunity for you to wake
up to your own role in
creating a new future--
your part in generating
the collective will
needed to set us on a
path to a thriving, just,
and sustainable way
of life for all.
The "Awakening the Dreamer,
Changing the Dream"
Program was born out
of a relationship
between the Pachamama
Alliance and indigenous people
of the Amazon rain forest.
FEMALE NARRATOR:
These are the Achuar
people, one of our planet's
most remote indigenous groups.
The Achuar are an
ancient dream culture,
still living in harmony
with their ancestral land--
nearly two million acres
of pristine tropical rain
forest in Ecuador and Peru.
In the late 1980s, the
Achuar elders and shamans
began having dreams and
visions that a grave threat
was coming to their people.
The Achuar soon realised what
that threat was as they began
to see what contact with the
outside world and its thirst
for oil was doing to
the land and cultures
of their indigenous neighbors.
And so, the Achuar
made a bold move.
They reached out to
create a partnership
with the very world that was
threatening to destroy them.
MALE NARRATOR: In 1995,
a call issued forth
from the heart of the
natural world that was heard
thousands of miles
away by a small group
of people in the modern world.
In the summer of that
year in a remote village
in the rain forest, these
two worlds came together.
And the Pachamama
Alliance was born.
From the very beginning,
our indigenous partners
told us that it was
really, really great
that we were working
with them in the Amazon,
shoulder to shoulder.
But that was only
half the battle.
They told us that if we really
wanted to protect their lands
permanently, we would
need to go to work
in our part of the world.
And as they put
it, we would need
to change the dream
of the North--
the dream of the modern world--
a dream rooted in consumption
and acquisition without any
regard to the consequences
to the natural world
or even our own future.
Changing the dream
of the modern world
is certainly a
daunting-- and some would
even say an impossible-- task.
But we took the request of
the Achuar very seriously.
Out of our work
with them, we came
to see that we in
the modern world
truly are in some kind of a
trance-- living in a dream
that's threatening to
destroy not only the rain
forest and their way of life
but the health and well-being
of our entire planet.
Our society is on a
completely unsustainable path.
And experts
everywhere are saying
that we have a limited
time to turn things around.
MALE NARRATOR: So in
response to the requests
that came from its
indigenous partners,
the Pachamama Alliance
created this symposium,
"Awakening the Dreamer, Changing
the Dream"-- now being offered
by thousands of
volunteers in dozens
of countries around the world.
The purpose of this symposium
is an audacious one-- bringing
forth an environmentally
sustainable,
spiritually fulfilling,
socially just
human presence on this planet.
FEMALE NARRATOR: The intention
is that by the end-- rather
than seeing these as
three separate issues--
you see them as
interrelated facets of one
profoundly
interconnected whole--
and that you not only
understand the scope and urgency
of the planetary
situation we face,
but you also see that the
possibility of our times
is greater than the crisis.
The goal is that you leave
here in a state that could
be described as blessed unrest.
The main purpose of the
"Awakening Dream" or program
is to create a cadre
of global citizens
that are awake-- people who
are engaged in the conversation
of what's it going to take
to create a new future--
and that also have the ability
to see that the future is not
something that's
just we're going
to live into but it's something
that we can actually create.
[CHANTING]
MALE NARRATOR: Indigenous
cultures throughout the world
have legends and
prophesies that identify
this time we are living in as
a turning point for humanity.
One such legend is
found throughout much
of the Americas-- the prophecy
of the eagle and the condor.
FEMALE NARRATOR: According
to this prophecy,
the eagle is the bird that
represents cultures that have
used the creativity of the
mind and scientific insight
to harness the
wonders of technology
and increase material wealth.
The condor represents
more spiritually-oriented
societies-- those that
are deeply in touch
with the sacredness
of the natural world
and the interconnectedness
of all things.
This legend said that every
500 years, we go through cycles.
And the last cycle began
at the end of the 1400s,
roughly the time of Columbus.
And it was predicted
that during that cycle,
the eagle would dominate.
But within 500 years, that
cycle would start to change.
And the eagle and
the condor would
fly together in the same skies.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Since the "Awakening
the Dreamer,
Changing the Dream" symposium
was launched in 2005,
it has seen
phenomenal expansions
throughout the world.
Thousands and thousands of
trained volunteer facilitators
are presenting the symposium
in more than 50 countries
in more than 10 languages.
Now, thanks to our partnership
with the people at Gaiam,
we are able to bring this
vital message to millions
more people worldwide.
This program aims to recreate
the life-changing experience
of attending the "Awakening
the Dreamer" symposium.
You'll be seeing an
actual symposium,
witnessing the
informative presentations,
watching powerful
videos, and listening in
on dynamic group interactions.
Then, you get to interact
with the material, as well.
From time to time,
I'll be back to guide
you through the process.
The symposium
you're about to see
was filmed at the Gaiam studios
in Boulder, Colorado, in 2011.
The participants were
members of the community
from all walks of life.
Well, we'd like to
welcome all of you
to "Awakening the Dreamer,
Changing the Dream" symposium.
It's just-- we're--
we're totally
excited that you're here to
be part of this symposium.
And we'd like to start
with just having you learn
a little bit about who we are.
My name is Doctora Anita
Louisa Theresa Medina Sanchez.
And you can call me Anita.
But I need to say
all of those names
because that's part
of my ancestry.
That's part of who--
allowing me to be here now.
And what brings me
such joy of this
is that it is so connected
up to my purpose.
To be a whole human
being means to really
be conscious of my connection
to people, to the earth,
and to the sacred.
And this has allowed
me to do that.
So I'm really, really
pleased to be here
and to be with you today.
Hm.
Thanks, Anita.
My name is Jon Symes.
And I started off
as a volunteer,
like Anita-- although as you
might tell from my accent,
not in this country.
I'm born in the UK.
And so for the past
four years, I've
been involved in the team that's
actually creating this program.
So I'm no longer a volunteer.
For a couple years, I was
the outreach director.
And I had the huge privilege
of taking this work to places
all around the world and
seeing that this work has
a way of speaking to
the common interest
that we have--
that we all share--
wherever we are from-- for
a whole and healed world.
I'm just delighted to be here.
Hi to everybody.
Welcome, and-- and we're
going to move forward.
Yeah, let's get on
with the symposium.
And get going.
And one of the things that you
need to know-- but you would
find out very
quickly-- Jon and I are
not experts in all of this
that we're going to deliver.
In fact, probably some of
you know far more than we do.
But we did-- all the
materials that we talk about
and that are on the
video are the consensus
of recognized experts
from all over the world.
And we do have materials that we
can send you to on our website
so that you can check out any
of this later, if you'd like.
And inside of this
symposium, what we like to do
is to acknowledge and
celebrate sacred space--
and do that by
borrowing the practice
of our indigenous partners.
And so that's what
we're going to do now.
Often, the toughest journey
in life-- but always the most
rewarding-- is the journey
from the head to the heart
and back again.
And that's our wish
for you during this day
and after is many
of those journeys.
And so I invite you-- if
you would lower your eyes
or close them, if you'd like.
And first, take a deep
breath and let it out.
And as you do,
let go of whatever
else you might have been doing.
Let go of whatever else might
be pulling at your attention
or awareness now.
[SOUNDS OF THE RAIN FOREST]
ANITA SANCHEZ: Take
another deep breath
and become completely present
to this time and this place
and this group of
fellow human beings.
And begin to envision
and create for ourselves
what an environmentally
sustainable,
spiritually-fulfilling,
and socially just human
presence might look like.
And you may open your eyes.
So take a breath and bring
your attention back to the front
of the room, please.
I wanted to share what
amazing times we live in.
And even just following
the news of these days,
it's apparent to us that
so much is changing.
And so the opportunity that we
have right here-- right now--
is to be part of the gathering
of the collective will
of humanity.
And that collective
will is being
generated in rooms like
this-- in groups like this
all around the world.
And so the
opportunity we have is
to find ourselves as agents of
the development of that will.
Agents of change, we
might say-- people
who are willing to step
into an active role
in creating a new way
of being here today.
What we're going
to move into now
is a process-- just so that
we feel united together
in the journey
we're going to take,
we're going to step into
an introduction process.
And Anita's going to
lead us through that.
Yeah, let's find
out who's here.
And you're going to just talk
with the people at your table.
And there is a set of questions
that, in particular, we
want you to answer.
You're going to say your name.
You're also going to
answer, what do you do
or what occupies your time?
In addition, you're
going to talk about one--
maybe two of the
greatest challenges you
feel are in the world today.
Fourth, what gives you hope?
And fifth, what are
you grateful for?
One thing that
you're grateful for.
One of the greatest challenges,
I think, facing us in the world
today is how we handle conflicts
safely between nations--
so that having so much
power and military
is used wisely and responsibly.
I feel like some of the
biggest problems in the world
are at root caused by the
way money is being funneled
into a very, very few people.
What gives me
hope is definitely
groups like this--
getting together--
making positive change.
I'm just grateful for
the blessed family
that I'm currently enjoying
in my life right now.
OK.
Now it's your turn.
This is an opportunity for you
to look at where you are now.
Think about these
three questions,
and then write
down your answers.
What do you think are one or
two of the greatest challenges
facing the world today?
What gives you hope?
What are you grateful for?
When you're done, come
back to the video.